# Reflection of HW3
1. What are the mistakes I just made when doing this HW?
    1. Thinking too general, like trying to implement the design using FIFO, this makes the whole design process more tedious.
    > Try first think about the easy cases and basic examples, before trying to implement complicated designs. For this case, a flit size of 1 fifo, which is the buffer works well for implementation. Since you have deadline pressure for the HW, thinking about the easiest case works fine. From the IC contest experience, work dealing with time-pressure stuff, always first try the easiest implementation method.
    2. Thinking way to broad
    > Try to narrow down your thoughts, and find the main points, for example, when considering scheme, routing algorithm and virtual channel usages, you should try to consider the implementation cost and time.
    3. Does not think about the correct tools and model for modeling a certain problem, for this case, the HW is designing a router, the best way to debug is using a cycle-accurate waveform simulator like nWave -> need to generate waveform -> Find the way for waveform generation -> sc_trace and its usage and its docmentation -> IC Lab design flow can be used
    > Thus, before diving into the implementation of a certain design, think about or search or make discussion with others about the best way of implementing this HW or project. Then dont be lazy, try to play around with those tools, it can save you tons of time after you get familiar with those tools.
    4. Too much time spent on making non-productive debugging work!
    > Relax, take a walk, sleep , workout or discuss with others when you are simply not making any progress. Perhaps you have the wrong though direction, wrong thinking model and incorrect debugging methodology.After resting, ask questions about the identified bug and try to assume the correct answer, if it is still not going anywhere, try to discuss with others about the correct answers.
    5. Not well prepared for the group discussions and does not generate enough valuable thoughts!
    > First view and think about the problem before entering a group discussion, for this HW one should discuss about, which algorithm to use, fifo sizes, schemes. Also their implementations. How to implement it? Also provide basic examples for tracing, also discuss about the basic tools and the best model for modeling this certain problems. Try to classified it into a class of model by viewing the literature first. Preparation must be made before going into a discussion to facilate teamworking. Later on, derive the possible workflow and discuss about whether this workflow fits our problem? And first thought about what might be the problem encountered when using this kind of workflow and thinking methodology.

2. How to ask the correct questions and model out the correct examples when trying to solve a certain problems?
    > Perhaps learning algorithmic thinking can help you overcome this problem. Use block diagrams, flow chart and example analysis then support it using pseudocodes to cement your thoughts. Then to improve you ideas further, shifting perspectives, making contradictions , exploit symmetry, divide and conquer strategy can help solving problems way easier. Now before discussion, make at least 5 theoretical problems and try answering them first, 3 examples about the models and try making example beforehead and propose an easy algorithm then answer it beforehead. Also try to discuss a possible WORKFLOW for approaching the problem and implementation.

3. Makefile usages and scripting also the creation of workflow for easier debug and system analysis?
    > Learning the workflow of system analysis and make debugging life easier can greatly increase productivity toward the progress of doing your HW. You can adapt the knowledge and workflow from past courses and integrate it into the workflow you are going through right now. What are the needed check points and scripts also the tools+environment to model out your architecture and testing your design must be first learnt and immediatly used to speed up your design process.

4. Design workflow learnt from this HW?
    > Since waveform model is the key to this HW, thus learning how to use sc_trace is important. Also to prevent segmentation fault when doing pointer access, must first guard it using the null pointer checking before accessing a certain pointer! This Router design is also a HW problem, thus block diagram and the timing diagram also nWave + IC LAB high level design flow can be used to implement this HW. Thus, needed script shall try to be learnt and prepard before head. Making simple example, make easy pattern with these examples and run it. Notice the signal.rc file generated from nWave is just a SCRIPT. Ultilizing a understanding the power of scripting can save you tons of time. All design EDA tool have script generation which can helps speeding up your design process if you take some time understanding how to use them.
